# Embedded code

During my first encounter with the Wemos D1 I was able to connect the LM35 Temperature sensor so i can read out the current temperature. To Achieve this i needed to read the raw analog voltage from the sensor. Next the raw voltage had to be converted to millivolts so that a represantable temperature value could be calculated. [See Code Here](https://gitlab.fdmci.hva.nl/IoT/2023-2024-semester-1/individual-project/iot-svadkoc/-/blob/8bd7aae81da8f2acf82b724e639a5dfc17b77f98/embedded/wemos-temperature/Temperature_sketch.ino)

The second part of working with the Wemos D1 was figuring out how to connect a button to the microcontroller so the user can control when the temperature is shown. To do this i had to connect a 10k Ohm resistor to the button so i could be ablo to read the button state and debounce the button when needed. The code for this part was quite simple. First the input pin for the button is declared. Then I keep track of the led and button state with a declared variable so we know in which state they are and can change them accordingly. I also added a buffer to prevent changes by noise. The code reads the current state of the button and changes the built-in led accordingly. [See Code Here](https://gitlab.fdmci.hva.nl/IoT/2023-2024-semester-1/individual-project/iot-svadkoc/-/blob/main/embedded/Button_sketch/Button_sketch.ino?ref_type=heads)

After making progress in the other slices of the project i realised the LM35 temperature sensor wouldn't give me enough data to crowd my webapplication. That's why i chose to purchase a DHT-22 sensor that can not only measure the temperature but also gives a humidity percentage. This way i can give the user more information about the conditions inside their house. Setting up the DHT-22 was quite straightforward. After wiring up the sensor i needed to declare the 